Welcome to C programming
for everybody.
My name is Charles Severance and
I'm your instructor
for this course.
This course and website
is dedicated to
learning the classic version
of C programming language
from the 1978 book
written by Brian W. Rigan
and Dennis M. Ritchie.
This book places the reader in
the middle of the
1970s transition from
a hardware centered
computer science to
a focus on writing portable
and efficient software.
C was used to develop
operating systems like
Unix, Minix, and Linux.
Programming languages
like Perl, Python,
Java and Javascript
and ruby are all
written in C. Software
like early TCPIP
networking stack implementations
that made the Internet
possible were written in
C. The first web browsers
and web servers were
written in C. Writing
software and C enabled
major advances in computer
architecture and performance.
Operating systems, compilers and
utilities could be
recompiled to work on
a new hardware platform once we
had a C compiler for
the new hardware.
Much software has been
written in C over
the past 40 years that there's
a very good chance that
much of the software
that you use
every day was either
written in C or written in
a programming language
that was written in
C. We study C less as
a programming language to
use on a daily basis and
more as the foundation of
modern software and computing.
In many ways, C
is the technology
equivalent of the
Rosetta Stone in that it
provides a connection between
the programming languages
of the past and the programming
languages of the present.
The name CC4E and
www.cc4e.com refers to the
original Unix command CC,
which was the command that
you used to compile
your C program.
CC stood for C compiler
and it is featured
on the first page of the first
chapter of the KNRC book.
Programmers like me from
the 1970s and 1980s
Tite CC on Unix systems
like the ATNT3B2 to
compile and run their
first Hello World program
in C. This material is being
presented under fair use
as we are making use
of material from
a copyrighted work
that is out of print
and not broadly
available in any format.
The book is also not available
in any accessible format.
We are making use
of this material
in a teaching and
research context
with a focus on studying
its contribution to
computing history.
The materials available for free
and online to anyone who
wants to learn about
the history of the C
language computing and
computer architecture.
Welcome to the course.